Singapore Participates In the Special Video Conferences of the Asean
Health Ministers Meeting and Asean Plus Three Health Ministers Meeting
On Covid-19



SINGAPORE PARTICIPATES IN THE SPECIAL VIDEO CONFERENCES OF THE ASEAN HEALTH MINISTERS MEETING AND ASEAN PLUS THREE HEALTH MINISTERS MEETING ON COVID-19


Published Date: 07 Apr 2020

          Minister for Health Mr Gan Kim Yong and Senior Minister of
State, Ministry of Transport and Ministry of Health Dr Lam Pin Min
participated in the Special Video Conferences of the ASEAN Health
Ministers Meeting and ASEAN Plus Three Health Ministers Meeting, held on
7 April 2020.

2.            The Special Video Conferences among ASEAN Health Ministers
and the Plus Three Countries (China, Japan, and Republic of Korea) were
convened by the Republic of Indonesia, in its capacity as the chair of
the ASEAN Health Ministers Meeting to enhance regional cooperation on
the response towards the COVID-19 pandemic. Attendees included Health
Ministers from ASEAN and Plus Three Countries, ASEAN Secretary General,
and senior representatives from the World Health Organization.

3.            Dr Lam shared Singapore’s national response towards the
COVID-19 outbreak and emphasised the vital importance of international
cooperation and solidarity in this unprecedented global crisis. He
reminded Member States of the importance of ensuring supply chain
connectivity and minimising the impact on the welfare of our peoples and
societies, even as we prioritised public health measures to slow the
spread of COVID-19. Dr Lam also urged regional collaboration for more
sustainable long-term solutions for COVID-19.

4.            Dr Lam said, “The COVID-19 will not be the last pandemic
that the world will face. We should therefore learn from our
experiences, and strengthen preparedness for future pandemics,
particularly in dense urban centres.”

5.            In the Joint Statements on enhancing cooperation on
COVID-19 pandemic response released after the meetings, the ASEAN Health
Ministers agreed to continue strengthening the exchange of latest
available knowledge and best practices on COVID-19 prevention,
detection, control and response efforts, which will help to stem the
outbreak in the region.

MINISTRY OF HEALTH
7 APRIL 2020
