Continuation of Essential Healthcare Services During Period of
Heightened Safe Distancing Measures



CONTINUATION OF ESSENTIAL HEALTHCARE SERVICES DURING PERIOD OF HEIGHTENED SAFE DISTANCING MEASURES


Published Date: 04 Apr 2020

               The Multi-Ministry Taskforce has announced an elevated
set of safe distancing measures as a circuit breaker to pre-empt the
trend of increasing local transmission of COVID-19. These will be in
place for four weeks (i.e. two incubation cycles) from 7 April 2020
until 4 May 2020 (inclusive). Essential services, including healthcare,
will continue to operate during this period.

HEALTHCARE SERVICES

2.         All public and private acute hospitals (including offsite
specialist clinics and offsite Ambulatory Surgical Centres), community
hospitals, polyclinics, Public Health Preparedness Clinics (PHPCs), and
renal dialysis centres will remain open for the delivery of essential
services.[1]

3.         Non-PHPC General Practitioner (GP) clinics, specialist
clinics, dental clinics, and Traditional Chinese Medicine (TCM) clinics
may remain open only for the delivery of essential services. All
non-essential appointments should be deferred, and any on-site staffing
kept to a minimum.

4.         Where possible, services that are suitable for
tele-consultation should be delivered remotely. Examples of essential
and non-essential face-to-face services are found in Annex A.

5.         Supporting services such as ambulance and patient transport,
blood services, laboratories and radiological services, quarantine and
isolation operations, and border health operations will continue
operations. Essential supply chains required to provide the essential
healthcare services should also continue operations.

COMMUNITY CARE SERVICES

6.         Residential and home-based community care services such as
nursing homes, psychiatric rehabilitation homes, psychiatric sheltered
homes, inpatient palliative care, home medical, home nursing, home
palliative care, interim caregiver service, and meals delivery services
will continue to function.

7.       Home personal care will be scaled down to serve only seniors
with inadequate family support, for example, where caregivers are
essential workers. Home therapy (except by tele-consult) and Medical
Escort and Transport service will also be suspended.

8.       Senior care centres, day rehab centres, psychiatric
rehabilitation centres, and day hospices will be closed. Selected
centres will remain open to support those with inadequate family
support, as well as intensive care needs. Such seniors can also be
supported with home care services including meals delivery if needed.

9.        See Annex B for the status of community care services during
this period. MOH and the Agency for Integrated Care (AIC) will provide
further information separately to community care providers.

BLOOD DONATION

10.      Blood donation services will remain in operation, and residents
are encouraged to continue donating blood during this period. As part of
the additional precautions put in place for safe distancing, donors are
highly encouraged to make appointments for their blood donations. Please
visit HSA's website for more information:
https://www.hsa.gov.sg/blood-donation.



------------------------------------------------------------------------

[1] Essential services/ procedures refer to those, if not provided or
performed, would result in significant or rapid deterioration of the
patientâ€™s medical condition, and potentially threaten their health and
wellbeing.
