Second Meeting of the Singapore - Malaysia Joint Working Group for
COVID-19



SECOND MEETING OF THE SINGAPORE - MALAYSIA JOINT WORKING GROUP FOR COVID-19


Published Date: 25 Mar 2020

             The second Singapore-Malaysia Joint Working Group (JWG)
meeting was held via video conference on 24 March 2020. The meeting was
co-chaired by Dr Lam Pin Min, Senior Minister of State for Transport and
Health for Singapore, with his  counterpart YB Dato’ Dr Haji Noor Azmi
Ghazali, Deputy Minister for Health I for Malaysia.

2.         At the meeting, both countries updated on the COVID-19
situations in their respective countries, shared existing temperature
screening procedures at land and sea checkpoints, and discussed a set of
protocols for the transfer of symptomatic travellers detected at entry
screening back across the land and sea checkpoints between Singapore and
Malaysia.

3.         The JWG agreed to continue entry screenings by both
countries, align temperature screening protocols by applying the same
temperature cut-off (>37.5°C) for febrile travellers, and implement
reciprocal arrangements for the transfer of symptomatic travellers
detected at entry screening back across the land and sea checkpoints.
The co-chairs tasked the senior officials of the JWG to coordinate the
implementation of these initiatives, which would serve as a
comprehensive package to enhance joint border screening at both the land
and sea borders connecting Singapore and Malaysia.

4.         The JWG acknowledged the recent establishment of the
Singapore – Malaysia Special Working Committee (SWC) on COVID-19 to
discuss a joint plan to ensure the safe and sustainable movement of
people, goods and services between both countries during Malaysia’s
Movement Control Order. The JWG agreed to continue health discussions
specific to these matters separately under the SWC.

5.         The third meeting of the JWG is planned for April 2020.
