56 More Cases Discharged, 528 New Cases of Covid-19 Infection Confirmed



56 MORE CASES DISCHARGED, 528 NEW CASES OF COVID-19 INFECTION CONFIRMED


Published Date: 30 Apr 2020

1.     As of 30 April 2020, 12pm, the Ministry of Health (MOH) has
confirmed and verified an additional 528 cases of COVID-19 infection in
Singapore. The breakdown is as follows:

a.  IMPORTED CASES: 0

    There are no imported cases today.

b.  CASES IN THE COMMUNITY: 9 (6 Singaporeans/Permanent Residents, 3
    Work Passes)

    The number of new cases in the community has decreased, from an
    average of 25 cases per day in the week before, to an average of 14
    per day in the past week. The number of unlinked cases in the
    community has also decreased, from an average of 17 cases per day in
    the week before, to an average of 7 per day in the past week.We will
    continue to closely monitor these numbers, as well as the cases
    detected through our surveillance programme.

c.  WORK PERMIT HOLDERS (RESIDING OUTSIDE DORMITORIES): 31

    There is an increase today in the number of new cases amongst Work
    Permit holders residing outside dormitories. The vast majority of
    these cases are workers in the construction sector serving their
    Stay-Home Notice (SHN) requirements.  Based on weekly averages, the
    number has decreased, from an average of 29 cases per day in the
    week before, to an average of 19 per day in the past week.

d.  WORK PERMIT HOLDERS (RESIDING IN DORMITORIES): 488

The main increase today continues to be for Work Permit holders residing
in dormitories, where we are picking up many more cases because of
extensive testing. Most of these cases have a mild illness and are being
monitored in the community isolation facilities or general ward of our
hospitals. Three are in the intensive care unit (ICU) [1].

2.     Details of these trends can be found in MOHâ€™s daily situation
Report (www.moh.gov.sg/covid-19/situation-report). Please refer to Annex
A for the summary of the confirmed cases.

3.     Of the new cases, 85% are linked to known clusters, while the
rest are pending contact tracing.

LINKS BETWEEN PREVIOUS CASES FOUND

4.     In the past week (23 April to 29 April), MOH has uncovered links
for 1,066 previously unlinked cases.

5.     Further epidemiological investigations and contact tracing have
uncovered links between previously announced and new cases. Please refer
to Annex B for details.

UPDATE ON CONDITION OF CONFIRMED CASES
6.     56 more cases of COVID-19 infection have been discharged from
hospitals or community isolation facilities. In all, 1,244 have fully
recovered from the infection and have been discharged from hospitals or
community isolation facilities.

7.     There are currently 1,708 confirmed cases who are still in
hospital. Of these, most are stable or improving, and 22 are in critical
condition in the intensive care unit. 13,202 are isolated and cared for
at community facilities. These are those who have mild symptoms, or are
clinically well but still test positive for COVID-19. 15 have passed
away from complications due to COVID-19 infection.

8.     Case 703, a 58 year-old female Singapore Citizen, has passed away
from complications due to COVID-19 infection on 30 April 2020. She was
confirmed to have COVID-19 infection on 26 March. Ng Teng Fong General
Hospital has reached out to her family and is extending assistance to
them.

MINISTRY OF HEALTH

30 APRIL 2020

------------------------------------------------------------------------

[1] Two had been admitted to hospital on 18 April and 19 April
respectively, and were transferred to the ICU when their condition had
deteriorated. The other was admitted directly to the ICU, and was
confirmed to have COVID-19 infection subsequently.
