Time-limited Extension of Chas Chronic Subsidy and Medisave to Video
Consultation



TIME-LIMITED EXTENSION OF CHAS CHRONIC SUBSIDY AND MEDISAVE TO VIDEO CONSULTATION


Published Date: 31 Mar 2020

         From 3 April 2020, the Ministry of Health (MOH) will introduce
a time-limited and exceptional extension of the Community Health Assist
Scheme (CHAS) Chronic subsidy and MediSave for the regular follow-up of
seven chronic conditions through video consultation to support the safe
distancing measures the Multi-Ministry Taskforce has implemented. This
will allow patients whose conditions are stable to avoid a physical
visit to a clinic during this period of heightened alert due to
COVID-19.

IN SUPPORT OF SAFE DISTANCING DURING COVID-19 OUTBREAK
2.            Currently, CHAS subsidy and MediSave are only available
for physical consultations. To support safe distancing, CHAS Chronic
subsidy and MediSave will be extended to video consultations of seven
selected chronic conditions under the Chronic Disease Management
Programme (CDMP). Patients can tap on the prevailing CHAS Chronic
subsidy and MediSave (i.e. MediSave500 and Flexi-MediSave) limits to
offset the cost of video consultation, related drugs and investigations.
3.            These chronic conditions are diabetes, hypertension, lipid
disorder, major depression, schizophrenia, bipolar disorder and
anxiety[1]. Patients with these conditions can generally be managed
through video consultations without physical examination if these
conditions are stable. Together, they also account for a high proportion
of patients who use CHAS and MediSave for their chronic treatments.
4.            The extension will remain active until the de-activation
of the Public Health Preparedness Clinic (PHPC) scheme, or as otherwise
determined by MOH.
ENSURING PATIENT SAFETY
5.            Healthcare professionals who wish to provide video
consultations which can be paid using CHAS subsidies and MediSave will
be required to undergo telemedicine e-training to familiarise themselves
with the best practices. Details will be made available to healthcare
professionals separately.
6.            Healthcare providers should only carry out video
consultations for patients that providers had physical consultations
with previously, so that they can confirm the patientâ€™s suitability for
video consultation before its use. Whenever it is assessed to be
necessary, such as when a physical examination is required, the provider
should ask the patient to come into the clinic for a physical
consultation.
7.            The list of healthcare institutions providing CHAS Chronic
subsidy and MediSave for video consultations of the selected chronic
conditions can be found at www.moh.gov.sg/covid-19/vc from 3 Apr 2020.
The number of providers will be progressively ramped up as more
providers adopt video consultation. Patients may also wish to check with
their healthcare provider to ascertain their suitability for video
consultations of the selected chronic conditions.

MINISTRY OF HEALTH
31 MARCH 2020
[1] CHAS Chronic subsidy and MediSave can only be claimed for major
depression, schizophrenia, bipolar disorder and anxiety at CDMP+
accredited clinics. Anxiety includes general anxiety disorder, panic
disorder, phobic anxiety disorders, obsessive-compulsive disorder, and
post-traumatic stress disorder.
