39 More Cases Discharged, 1,111 New Cases of Covid-19 Infection
Confirmed



39 MORE CASES DISCHARGED, 1,111 NEW CASES OF COVID-19 INFECTION CONFIRMED


Published Date: 21 Apr 2020

    As of 21 April 2020, 12pm, the Ministry of Health (MOH) has
confirmed and verified an additional 1,111 cases of COVID-19 infection
in Singapore. The breakdown is as follows:
A) IMPORTED CASES: 0

There are no imported cases today.

B) CASES IN THE COMMUNITY: 28 (20 Singaporeans/Permanent Residents, 8
Work/ Long Term Passes)

The number of new cases in the community has decreased, from an average
of 39 cases per day in the week before, to an average of 28 per day in
the past week. The number of unlinked cases in the community has
decreased slightly, from an average of 21 cases per day in the week
before, to an average of 20 per day in the past week. We will continue
to closely monitor these numbers, as well as the cases detected through
our surveillance programme.

C) WORK PERMIT HOLDERS (RESIDING OUTSIDE DORMITORIES): 33

The number of new cases amongst Work Permit holders residing outside
dormitories has continued to increase, from an average of 14 cases per
day in the week before, to an average of 26 per day in the past week.

D) WORK PERMIT HOLDERS (RESIDING IN DORMITORIES): 1,050

The main increase today continues to be for Work Permit holders residing
in dormitories, where we are picking up many more cases because of
extensive testing. Most of these cases have a mild illness and are being
monitored in the community isolation facilities or general ward of our
hospitals. None of them is in the intensive care unit.

2.   Details of these trends can be found in MOHâ€™s daily situation
Report (www.moh.gov.sg/covid-19/situation-report). Please refer to Annex
A for the summary of the confirmed cases.
3.   Of the new cases, 66% are linked to known clusters, while the rest
are pending contact tracing.

LINKS BETWEEN PREVIOUS CASES FOUND
4.   In the past week (14 April to 20 April), MOH has uncovered links
for 672 previously unlinked cases.

5.   Further epidemiological investigations and contact tracing have
uncovered links between previously announced and new cases. Please refer
to Annex B for details.

UPDATE ON CONDITION OF CONFIRMED CASES

6.     39 more cases [1] of COVID-19 infection have been discharged from
hospitals or community isolation facilities. In all, 839 have fully
recovered from the infection and have been discharged from hospitals or
community isolation facilities.

7.   Of the 3,593 confirmed cases who are still in hospital, most are
stable or improving. 27 are in critical condition in the intensive care
unit. 4,682 cases who are clinically well but still test positive for
COVID-19 are isolated and cared for at community facilities. 11 have
passed away from complications due to COVID-19 infection.

MINISTRY OF HEALTH
21 APRIL 2020
[1] Cases 147, 300, 360, 610, 613, 620, 655, 743, 849, 896, 938, 988,
999, 1082, 1103, 1123, 1170, 1383, 1446, 1530, 1544, 1599, 1643, 1733,
1758, 1841, 1937, 1949, 1994, 2182, 2208, 2485, 2539, 2736, 3014, 3448,
4162, 4779 and 5472.
