57 More Cases Discharged, 1,016 New Cases of Covid-19 Infection
Confirmed



57 MORE CASES DISCHARGED, 1,016 NEW CASES OF COVID-19 INFECTION CONFIRMED


Published Date: 22 Apr 2020

     As of 22 April 2020, 12pm, the Ministry of Health (MOH) has
confirmed and verified an additional 1,016 cases of COVID-19 infection
in Singapore. The breakdown is as follows:

A) IMPORTED CASES: 0

There are no imported cases today.

B)    CASES IN THE COMMUNITY: 17 (15 SINGAPOREANS/PERMANENT RESIDENTS, 2
WORK PASSES)

The number of new cases in the community has decreased, from an average
of 36 cases per day in the week before, to an average of 25 per day in
the past week. The number of unlinked cases in the community has
decreased, from an average of 21 cases per day in the week before, to an
average of 17 per day in the past week. We will continue to closely
monitor these numbers, as well as the cases detected through our
surveillance programme.

C)    WORK PERMIT HOLDERS (RESIDING OUTSIDE DORMITORIES): 32

The number of new cases amongst Work Permit holders residing outside
dormitories has continued to increase, from an average of 14 cases per
day in the week before, to an average of 30 per day in the past week.

D)    WORK PERMIT HOLDERS (RESIDING IN DORMITORIES): 967

The main increase today continues to be for Work Permit holders residing
in dormitories, where we are picking up many more cases because of
extensive testing. Most of these cases have a mild illness and are being
monitored in the community isolation facilities or general ward of our
hospitals. None of them is in the intensive care unit.

2.             Details of these trends can be found in MOHâ€™s daily
situation Report (www.moh.gov.sg/covid-19/situation-report). Please
refer to Annex A for the summary of the confirmed cases.

3.             Of the new cases, 73% are linked to known clusters, while
the rest are pending contact tracing.

LINKS BETWEEN PREVIOUS CASES FOUND

4.             In the past week (15 April to 21 April), MOH has
uncovered links for 918 previously unlinked cases.

5.             Further epidemiological investigations and contact
tracing have uncovered links between previously announced and new cases.
Please refer to Annex B for details.

UPDATE ON CONDITION OF CONFIRMED CASES

6.             57 more cases[1] of COVID-19 infection have been
discharged from hospitals or community isolation facilities. In all, 882
have fully recovered from the infection and have been discharged from
hospitals or community isolation facilities.

7.             Of the 4,234 confirmed cases who are still in hospital,
most are stable or improving. 25 are in critical condition in the
intensive care unit. 4,999 cases who are clinically well but still test
positive for COVID-19 are isolated and cared for at community
facilities. 12 have passed away from complications due to COVID-19
infection.

8.             Case 1071, an 84 year-old female Singapore Citizen, has
passed away from complications due to COVID-19 infection on 21 April
2020 night. She was confirmed to have COVID-19 infection on 2 April.
Khoo Teck Puat Hospital has reached out to her family and is extending
assistance to them.



------------------------------------------------------------------------

[1] Cases 142, 347, 433, 459, 501, 540, 546, 549, 556, 582, 631, 634,
732, 779, 791, 818, 860, 863, 866, 888, 943, 945, 957, 977, 986, 1003,
1012, 1042, 1048, 1051, 1056, 1080, 1131, 1132, 1154, 1180, 1220, 1231,
1303, 1368, 1390, 1405, 1479, 1534, 1535, 1615, 1622, 1720, 1730, 1965,
2240, 2540, 2559, 2957, 3316, 4160 and 7083.
