33 More Cases Discharged; 528 New Cases of Covid-19 Infection Confirmed



33 MORE CASES DISCHARGED; 528 NEW CASES OF COVID-19 INFECTION CONFIRMED


Published Date: 28 Apr 2020

               As of 28 April 2020, 12pm, the Ministry of Health (MOH)
has confirmed and verified an additional 528 cases of COVID-19 infection
in Singapore. The breakdown is as follows:

A) IMPORTED CASES: 0
There are no imported cases today.

B) CASES IN THE COMMUNITY: 10 (7 Singaporeans/Permanent Residents [1], 2
Work Passes, 1 Visit Pass)

The number of new cases in the community has decreased, from an average
of 28 cases per day in the week before, to an average of 17 per day in
the past week. The number of unlinked cases in the community has also
decreased, from an average of 18 cases per day in the week before, to an
average of 10 per day in the past week. We will continue to closely
monitor these numbers, as well as the cases detected through our
surveillance programme.

C) WORK PERMIT HOLDERS (RESIDING OUTSIDE DORMITORIES): 7
The number of new cases amongst Work Permit holders residing outside
dormitories has decreased, from an average of 25 cases per day in the
week before, to an average of 20 per day in the past week.
D) WORK PERMIT HOLDERS (RESIDING IN DORMITORIES): 511

The main increase today continues to be for Work Permit holders residing
in dormitories, where we are picking up many more cases because of
extensive testing. Most of these cases have a mild illness and are being
monitored in the community isolation facilities or general ward of our
hospitals. None of them is in the intensive care unit.

2.      Details of these trends can be found in MOHâ€™s daily situation
Report (www.moh.gov.sg/covid-19/situation-report). Please refer to Annex
A for the summary of the confirmed cases.

3.     Of the new cases, 83% are linked to known clusters, while the
rest are pending contact tracing.
LINKS BETWEEN PREVIOUS CASES FOUND

4.    In the past week (21 April to 27 April), MOH has uncovered links
for 1,203 previously unlinked cases.

5.    Further epidemiological investigations and contact tracing have
uncovered links between previously announced and new cases. Please refer
to Annex B for details.

CASES FROM PUBLIC HEALTHCARE SECTOR

Case 14693

6.    Case 14693 is a 24 year-old male Singapore Permanent Resident who
has no recent travel history to affected countries or regions. He
reported onset of symptoms on 27 April, and subsequent test results
confirmed COVID-19 infection on the same day. He is currently warded at
Changi General Hospital (CGH).

7.    He is employed as a nurse at CGH but had not gone to work since
onset of symptoms.

UPDATE ON CONDITION OF CONFIRMED CASES

8.    33 more cases [2] of COVID-19 infection have been discharged from
hospitals or community isolation facilities. In all, 1,128 have fully
recovered from the infection and have been discharged from hospitals or
community isolation facilities.

9.    There are currently 1,889 confirmed cases who are still in
hospital. Of these, most are stable or improving, and 21 are in critical
condition in the intensive care unit. 11,920 are isolated and cared for
at community facilities. These are those who have mild symptoms, or are
clinically well but still test positive for COVID-19. 14 have passed
away from complications due to COVID-19 infection.

MINISTRY OF HEALTH

28 APRIL 2020

------------------------------------------------------------------------

[1] Updated from the afternoon press release as one case had been
re-classified following contact tracing.

[2] Cases 658, 685, 761, 811, 813, 820, 914, 950, 1007, 1016, 1053,
1409, 1454, 1461, 1607, 1618, 1624, 1633, 1961, 2107, 2235, 4680, 4893,
2283, 4053, 4401, 4802, 4926, 5262, 7436, 8407, 8790 and 10407.
