26 More Cases Discharged; 596 New Cases of Covid-19 Infection Confirmed



26 MORE CASES DISCHARGED; 596 NEW CASES OF COVID-19 INFECTION CONFIRMED


Published Date: 19 Apr 2020

As of 19 April 2020, 12pm, the Ministry of Health (MOH) has confirmed
and verified an additional 596 cases of COVID-19 infection in Singapore.
The breakdown is as follows:

A)  IMPORTED CASES: 0

There are no imported cases today.

B)  CASES IN THE COMMUNITY: 30 (25 Singaporeans/Permanent Residents and
5 Work Passes)

The number of new cases in the community has decreased, from an average
of 37 cases per day in the week before, to an average of 31 per day in
the past week. The number of unlinked cases in the community has
increased slightly, from an average of 18 cases per day in the week
before, to an average of 22 per day in the past week. We will continue
to closely monitor these numbers, as well as the cases detected through
our surveillance programme.

C)  WORK PERMIT HOLDERS (RESIDING OUTSIDE DORMITORIES): 22

The number of new cases amongst Work Permit holders residing outside
dormitories has increased, from an average of 11 cases per day in the
week before, to an average of 21 per day in the past week.

D)  WORK PERMIT HOLDERS (RESIDING IN DORMITORIES): 544

The main increase today continues to be for Work Permit holders residing
in dormitories, in line with our continued efforts to actively test and
isolate the infected workers. Most of these cases are young, have a mild
illness and are being monitored in the community isolation facilities or
general ward of our hospitals. None of them is in the intensive care
unit.

 2.   Details of these trends can be found in MOHâ€™s daily situation
Report (www.moh.gov.sg/covid-19/situation-report).

3.  Of the new cases, 68% are linked to known clusters, while the rest
are pending contact tracing.

LINKS BETWEEN PREVIOUS CASES FOUND

4.   In the past week (12 April to 18 April), MOH has uncovered links
for 528 previously unlinked cases (see Annex A).

5.   Further epidemiological investigations and contact tracing have
uncovered links between previously announced and new cases. A summary of
the confirmed cases are in Annex B.

6.   Please refer to the MOH website for the situation report
(www.moh.gov.sg/covid-19/situation-report).

CASES FROM PUBLIC HEALTHCARE SECTOR

Case 4556 (Announced on 17 April)

7.   Case 4556 is a 32 year-old female Singapore Citizen who has no
recent travel history to affected countries or regions. She reported
onset of symptoms on 13 April, and subsequent test results confirmed
COVID-19 infection on 17 April. She is currently warded at Khoo Teck
Puat Hospital (KTPH).

8.   Prior to hospital admission, she had gone to work as a nurse at
KTPH.

UPDATE ON CONDITION OF CONFIRMED CASES

9.   26 more cases[1] of COVID-19 infection have been discharged from
hospitals or community isolation facilities. In all, 768 have fully
recovered from the infection and have been discharged from hospitals or
community isolation facilities.

10. Of the 2,921 confirmed cases who are still in hospital, most are
stable or improving. 22 are in critical condition in the intensive care
unit. 2,888 cases who are clinically well but still test positive for
COVID-19 are isolated and cared for at community facilities. 11 have
passed away from complications due to COVID-19 infection.

MINISTRY OF HEALTH

19 APRIL 2020

------------------------------------------------------------------------

[1] Cases 284, 288, 391, 545, 557, 611, 976, 1158, 1199, 1402, 1412,
1500, 1514, 1888, 2023, 2157, 2524, 2541, 2737, 3140, 3337, 4571, 4578,
4579, 4774 and 4777.
