Passing of Two Patients with COVID-19 Infection



PASSING OF TWO PATIENTS WITH COVID-19 INFECTION


Published Date: 21 Mar 2020

          The Ministry of Health (MOH) has confirmed that two patients
have passed away from complications due to COVID-19 infection on 21
March morning. 

2.            The first patient was a 75 year-old female Singapore
Citizen. She was admitted to the National Centre for Infectious Diseases
(NCID) on 23 February for pneumonia, and was confirmed to have COVID-19
infection on the same day. She had been cared for in the intensive care
unit (ICU) since admission to NCID. She developed serious complications
and eventually succumbed to the infection after 26 days in the ICU on 21
March at 7.52am. She had a history of chronic heart disease and
hypertension.

3.            The second patient was a 64 year-old male Indonesian
national. He was admitted in critical condition to the ICU at NCID on 13
March, after arriving in Singapore from Indonesia on the same day, and
was confirmed to have COVID-19 infection on 14 March. He had been cared
for in the ICU since 13 March. He developed serious complications and
eventually succumbed to the infection after nine days in the ICU on 21
March at 10.15am. Prior to his arrival in Singapore on 13 March, he had
been hospitalised in Indonesia for pneumonia, and had a history of heart
disease.

4.            Minister for Health Mr Gan Kim Yong said, “We are deeply
saddened by their passing. Our thoughts are with their families during
this difficult time. We will render all necessary assistance to their
families. I understand that Singaporeans will be affected by this news.
But we must take courage and continue to play our part to fight this
virus.”

5.            The Ministry of Health and NCID have reached out to their
families and are extending assistance to them.

MINISTRY OF HEALTH
21 MARCH 2020
