46 More Cases Discharged; 618 New Cases of Covid-19 Infection Confirmed



46 MORE CASES DISCHARGED; 618 NEW CASES OF COVID-19 INFECTION CONFIRMED


Published Date: 25 Apr 2020

             As of 25 April 2020, 12pm, the Ministry of Health (MOH) has
confirmed and verified an additional 618 cases of COVID-19 infection in
Singapore. The breakdown is as follows:

A) IMPORTED CASES: 0

There are no imported cases today.

B)  CASES IN THE COMMUNITY: 9 (7 Singaporeans/Permanent Residents, 2
Work/ Long-Term Visit Passes)

The number of new cases in the community has decreased, from an average
of 31 cases per day in the week before, to an average of 23 per day in
the past week. The number of unlinked cases in the community has also
decreased, from an average of 21 cases per day in the week before, to an
average of 15 per day in the past week. We will continue to closely
monitor these numbers, as well as the cases detected through our
surveillance programme.

C)   WORK PERMIT HOLDERS (RESIDING OUTSIDE DORMITORIES): 12

The number of new cases amongst Work Permit holders residing outside
dormitories has continued to increase, from an average of 21 cases per
day in the week before, to an average of 26 per day in the past week.

D)  WORK PERMIT HOLDERS (RESIDING IN DORMITORIES): 597

The main increase today continues to be for Work Permit holders residing
in dormitories, where we are picking up many more cases because of
extensive testing. Most of these cases have a mild illness and are being
monitored in the community isolation facilities or general ward of our
hospitals. None of them is in the intensive care unit.

2.   Details of these trends can be found in MOHâ€™s daily situation
Report (www.moh.gov.sg/covid-19/situation-report). Please refer to Annex
A for the summary of the confirmed cases.

3.  Of the new cases, 81% are linked to known clusters, while the rest
are pending contact tracing.
LINKS BETWEEN PREVIOUS CASES FOUND

4.   In the past week (18 April to 24 April), MOH has uncovered links
for 1,226 previously unlinked cases.

5.  Further epidemiological investigations and contact tracing have
uncovered links between previously announced and new cases. Please refer
to Annex B for details.

UPDATE ON CONDITION OF CONFIRMED CASES

6.  46 more cases[1] of COVID-19 infection have been discharged from
hospitals or community isolation facilities. In all, 1,002 have fully
recovered from the infection and have been discharged from hospitals or
community isolation facilities.

7.   There are currently 1,214 confirmed cases who are still in
hospital. Of these, most are stable or improving, and 24 are in critical
condition in the intensive care unit. 10,465 are isolated and cared for
at community facilities. These are those who have mild symptoms, or are
clinically well but still test positive for COVID-19. 12 have passed
away from complications due to COVID-19 infection.

MINISTRY OF HEALTH

25 APRIL 2020

------------------------------------------------------------------------

[1] Cases 336, 735, 784, 815, 848, 924, 942, 1019, 1165, 1249, 1257,
1258, 1378, 1465, 1477, 1483, 1488, 1553, 1559, 1563, 1593, 1614, 1664,
1687, 1732, 1772, 1832, 1974, 1986, 2124, 2130, 2139, 2163, 2303, 2378,
2496, 3538, 3873, 4606, 4759, 4887, 4896, 5298, 5782, 6112 and 7017.
